---
title: Get Signal
---

## Theory

Signal is a free, open source, secure private calling and messaging app.

> Using Signal, you can communicate instantly while avoiding SMS fees, create groups so that you can chat in real time
> with all your friends at once, and share media all with complete privacy. **The server never has access to any of your
> communication and never stores any of your data.**
>
> Say Anything - Signal uses an advanced end to end encryption protocol that provides privacy for every message every
> time.
>
> Open Source - Signal is Free and Open Source, enabling anyone to verify its security by auditing the code. Signal is
> the only private messenger that uses open source peer-reviewed cryptographic protocols to keep your messages safe.
>
> Be Yourself - Signal uses your existing phone number and address book. There are no separate logins, usernames,
> passwords, or PINs to manage or lose.
>
> Group Chat - Signal allows you to create encrypted groups so you can have private conversations with all your friends
> at once. Not only are the messages encrypted, but the Signal server never has access to any group metadata such as the
> membership list, group title, or group icon.
>
> Fast - The Signal protocol is designed to operate in the most constrained environment possible. Using Signal, messages
> are instantly delivered to friends.
>
> Speak Freely - Make crystal-clear phone calls to people who live across town, or across the ocean, with no
> long-distance charges.

In a sentence, Signal is the easiest way to chat securely over your phone.

## Homework

Download signal for [Android][Android], [iPhone][iPhone], or [Desktop][Desktop]. If you already have friends using the
app, try sending them a message. If not, invite folks to try it with you!

[iPhone]: https://itunes.apple.com/app/signal-private-messenger/id874139669
[Android]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms
[Desktop]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/signal-private-messenger/bikioccmkafdpakkkcpdbppfkghcmihk
